Project Rationale.

Working Link: https://thesuperolly.github.io/API-Sketch-Repo

GitHub Repo Link: https://github.com/thesuperolly/API-Sketch-Repo

My idea with this design was pretty simple. Create an interesting viewing experience for information gathered in significant years of my life. Taking inspiration from other dynamic visual displays of collected data my initial design was based on a vertical timeline with a plotted points representing different years. This design was changed to vertical plotted line to create am more easily responsive layout. It also made the display cards content clearer and more easy to read.
Upon loading the page an initial “loading state” call is made and loads the API data  for the first time line. Instead of calling random data, I chose instead to curate a selection of items to show. This lead to four individual calls being made. After the initial loading call is made, the user is then able to click any one of the points on the plotted line to call the curated data from each selected year.
Another aspect I was hoping include was a distance display. This would display a set  location where the significant event of that year took place and then show the distance from the users current location. This proved more difficult than initial intended as I am unfamiliar with both the browser API and how to plot latitudinal and longitudinal information. Thankfully I was able to research how to get it to display in time for submission, but I feel that is could be more elegant. And should be updated in future iterations.
The biggest hurdles on the process of creating this web app were my lack of knowledge of javascript and API calls. This lead to me having to create multiple calls of similar or identical data. The primary case of this was in the calls to the MAAS apis. I initially set a “for” loop to call all of the data to each of the cards using an array, but I found that it moved through the loops to face and dumped all the data in a single card. This is definitely an area I would like to address in future iterations for this web app.
In the future, I would put more work into making the display of each card more visually dynamic. I would like to experiment with placing larger slab style typefaces and rotating text. Regarding the API function I would like to create further user interactions. I would like to allow users to change and add more points on the time line. To do this though, I would need to automate the retrieval of data from the API call but other than that I feel it would be pretty simple to achieve.
Overall I am happy with this as a simple sketch, but it would need much more work to be ready to production.